# CoursePlanner
This project reads course data from a CSV file to display an alphabetical course list and their prerequisites. The core problem solved throughout this course was finding the best data structure to implement. My methods to reach a conclusion were to create a pseudocode code for each structure and analysing each performance to select the best suited for our problem, also to have prepared options in case the data size or requisites changes. Understanding these structures is critical because they can change the program efficiency, the scale of 100 courses changes which structure we need for the most efficient program. In this case the vector structure seem the best at first but after testing hash table's sorting was superion in its loading speed, memory efficiency, and code simplicity. One of my biggest roadblock was to implement a deletion function specially in the binary search tree because the three distinct cases needing a deep understanding of how a binary tree structure looks and how it changes when you add or delete nodes. My main solution to help me understand how to better implement deleting funtion was to look for people around me with more experience in programming and data structure implementation. Working through this challenge deepened my understanding of memory management and pointer fundamentals. This project has expanded my understanding and my approach to software desing and how important choosing the correct data structure. My coding practices have evolved toward greater maintainability, readability, and adaptability, to thinnk about how to can I expand and be ready for any future changes that may be needed, maintain each function separate for better maintenance, and to keep comprehensive inline comments that summarize the fucntions of the code for better reading.
